Corrected naming inconsistencies and updated details in EBWOID/PID Ru… (#65)
webuild-consortium/webuild-attestation-rulebooks-catalog: rulebooks/rb-ebwoid/README.md

# Attestation Rulebook for attestations of type EBWOID (European Business Wallet – Owner Identification Data)

*Provide information about the author(s) of this Rulebook in the following form:*

* Author(s): 
    <!-- Usage help: (Name LastName, Affiliation) -->
  * Jonas Toennis, [Brønnøysund Registry Center](https://www.brreg.no)

*Provide versioning information about the Rulebook in the following form:*

| Version | Date       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 0.9.1   | 13.02.2026 | EBWOID created based on the [EBW proposal (Articles 8–9)](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/proposal-regulation-establishment-european-business-wallets) plus feedback from semantics. |

> | 1.0.0   | 22.05.2026 | Updated based on review feedback.                                                                                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1.0.0   | 22.05.2026 | Updated following review feedback.                                                                                                                                                                     |
```

**Feedback:**
Main feedback channel: [GitHub issues](https://github.com/webuild-consortium/eudi-wallet-rulebooks-and-schemas/issues)

> Alternative: Contact workpackage 4 in WE BUILD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternative: Contact Work Package 4 in WE BUILD.
```

## 1 Introduction

### 1.1 Document scope and purpose

> The European Business Wallet – Owner Identification Data (EBWOID) is based on the European Business Wallet regulation draft COM(2025) 838. While this is a document with draft status, WEBUILD decided at the beginning of 2026 that the draft would be accepted as the basis for the Business Wallet work. This means the suggested amendments to Regulation 2024/1183 will be applied for WEBUILD. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The European Business Wallet – Owner Identification Data (EBWOID) is based on the European Business Wallet Regulation draft COM(2025) 838. While this document is still in draft status, WE BUILD decided at the beginning of 2026 that the draft would be accepted as the basis for the Business Wallet work. This means that the suggested amendments to Regulation 2024/1183 will be applied within WE BUILD. 
```

The European Business Wallet – Owner Identification Data (EBWOID) attestation defines a legally defined, common set of data that uniquely identifies an EBW owner (economic operator or public sector body) within the European Business Wallets (EBW) ecosystem. Its purpose is to provide a harmonised, interoperable attestation that enables Relying Parties and business wallets to establish trust in an EBW owner entity. EBWOID focuses on the core identifiers needed across national and cross‑border use cases.

Primary objectives:

> - Provide a cross‑border unique identifier for the EBW owner (In **WEBUILD** EUID where available, otherwise a similar constructed, unique per issuer identifier. <Countrycode ISO 3166-1 alpha-2><Issuer-reference>.<unique identificator> eks. SEBOLREG.123456789) and the official name of the EBW owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provide a cross‑border unique identifier for the EBW owner (In **WE BUILD** EUID where available, otherwise a similarly constructed, unique per issuer identifier. <CountryCode ISO 3166-1 alpha-2><Issuer-reference>.<unique identifier> e.g. SEBOLREG.123456789) and the official name of the EBW owner.
```

alignment with rest of the text and PID rulebook

|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| EBW               | European Business Wallet                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| EBW owner         | An economic operator or public sector body that owns an EBW, including Union entities; corresponds to the bearer of EBWOID.                                                                                                   |
| EBWOID            | European Business Wallet owner identification data. A set of data that enables the establishment of the identity of a European Business Wallet owner                                                                          |

> | economic operator | any natural or legal person, or a group of such persons, including temporary associations of undertakings, acting in a commercial or professional capacity for purposes related to their trade, business, craft or profession |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Economic operator | Any natural or legal person, or a group of such persons, including temporary associations of undertakings, acting in a commercial or professional capacity for purposes related to their trade, business, craft or profession |
```

### 2.2 Mandatory attributes per EBW proposal (Articles 8–9)

| **Data Identifier** | **Definition**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| legal_name          | The official name of the EBW owner (economic operator or public sector body), from the relevant register or official record.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

> | id                  | The relevant unique identifier attributed in accordance with Article 9 of EBW (**WEBUILD specific** EUID where available, otherwise a similar constructed, unique per issuer identifier. <Countrycode ISO 3166-1 alpha-2><Issuer-reference>.<unique identificator> eks. `SE` +  `BOLREG` + `123456789` -> `SEBOLREG.123456789` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| id                  | The relevant unique identifier attributed in accordance with Article 9 of EBW (**WE BUILD specific** EUID where available, otherwise a similarly constructed, unique per issuer identifier. <CountryCode ISO 3166-1 alpha-2><Issuer-reference>.<unique identifier> e.g. `SE` +  `BOLREG` + `123456789` -> `SEBOLREG.123456789` |
```

| location_status     | The location of validity status information on the EBWOID used for revocation/suspension checks.                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| expiry_date         | Administrative Date when the EBWOID will expire, following ISO 8601 **Clarification** This is in case the administrative validity is different from the technical expiry date of the credential.                                                                                                          |
| trust_anchor        | This meta-data attribute indicates at least the URL at which a machine‑readable version of the trust anchor to be used for verifying the EBWOID can be found or looked up. This corresponds to Annex V/VII point h) of the [European Digital Identity Regulation] and EBW Article 8 issuance as EAA/QEAA. |

# 3 Attestation encoding

## 3.1 ISO/IEC 18013-5-compliant encoding

> The ISO/IEC 18013-5 encoding is out of scope for the WEBUILD rulebook. This decision is based on the results of the specification phase of the WEBUILD consortium, where no requirements or use cases for proximity sharing of the EBWOID credential were identified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ISO/IEC 18013-5 encoding is out of scope for the WE BUILD rulebook. This decision is based on the results of the specification phase of the WE BUILD consortium, during which no requirements or use cases for proximity sharing of the EBWOID credential were identified.
```

> | id                          | id                          | string          | Cross‑border unique identifier per EBW Article 9. In **WEBUILD** EUID where available, otherwise a similar constructed, unique per issuer identifier. <Countrycode ISO 3166-1 alpha-2><Issuer-reference>.<unique identificator> `SE` +  `BOLREG` + `123456789` -> `SEBOLREG.123456789`  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| id                          | id                          | string          | Cross‑border unique identifier per EBW Article 9. In **WE BUILD** EUID where available, otherwise a similarly constructed, unique per issuer identifier. <CountryCode ISO 3166-1 alpha-2><Issuer-reference>.<unique identifier> e.g. `SE` +  `BOLREG` + `123456789` -> `SEBOLREG.123456789`  |
```

## 5 Trust anchors

For EBWOID as a PUB-EAA/QEAA, Relying Parties SHALL verify the EBWOID using the issuer credential:
- Public‑body issuer certificate issued by a Qualified Trust Service Provider (QTSP) when provided by or on behalf of a public sector body responsible for an authentic source;
- Qualified electronic attestation of attributes when provided by a QTSP; or
- Commission issuance for Union entities (having the same legal effect per EBW Article 8(4)).
Relying Parties SHALL verify the relevant certificate chain up to the appropriate trust anchor (eIDAS Trust List or Commission trust anchor as applicable).

Verification steps:
1) Verify the SD‑JWT VC signature over the EBWOID using the issuer certificate.
2) Build and validate the certificate chain from the issuer certificate to a QTSP trust anchor listed in the appropriate Trusted List.
3) Validate certificate status (validity, revocation) per eIDAS trust list rules.
4) Use the `trust_list_location` metadata to discover the appropriate Trusted List or machine‑readable pointer.

Issuers MAY use intermediate signing certificates. RPs SHALL handle such chains. The trust model is equivalent to Annex VII for PuB‑EAA.

> For usage of the trust-list in WEBUILD, please consult the Architecture Blueprint. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information regarding the use of the trust list in WE BUILD, please consult the Architecture Blueprint.
```

## 7 Compliance
This EBWOID rulebook is compliant with the draft for regulation COM(2025) 838, and in line with the ARF version 2.8.0. 

> While the legislative process for the EBW regulation continues, major updates to this rulebook for the WEBUILD context are not expected unless required by exceptional circumstances and WEBUILD Management Board. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the legislative process for the EBW Regulation continues, major updates to this rulebook within the WE BUILD context are not expected unless required by exceptional circumstances or requested by the WE BUILD Management Board. 
```
